content/rs/administering/database-operations/database-backup.md, before:

---
Title: Scheduled Backups
description: 
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
---
You can manually [export your data]({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/exporting-data.md" >}})
from a specific database at any time.
You can also schedule backups of your databases to make sure you always have valid backups.
The backup process can be scheduled for every 1, 4, 12 or 24 hours from the time that you save the backup configuration.

You can schedule backups to these locations:

- FTP server
- SFTP server
- Amazon S3
- Local mount point
- OpenStack Swift (Object Storage)

Other cloud storage options, including Azure Geo-Redundant Storage and Google Cloud Storage,
are planned for a future release.

The backup process creates compressed (.gz) RDB files that you can [import into a database]
({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/importing-data.md" >}}).
If you backup a database configured for database clustering,
RS copies a backup file for each shard to the specified backup location.

{{% note %}}
Make sure that you have enough space available in your storage location.
If there is not enough space in the backup location, the backup fails.
{{% /note %}}

## Scheduling Periodic Backups

To schedule periodic backups for a database:

1. In **databases**, click on the database that you want to configure backups for.
1. In **configuration**, select **Periodic backup**.
1. Select an interval for the backups to run either every **1**, **4**, **12** or **24** hours.
1. Select one of the available storage types.
1. Enter the details for the selected storage type.
1. To save the database configuration, click **Update**.

### FTP server

Before you configure backups to an FTP server, make sure that:

- The RS instance has network connectivity to the FTP server.
- The user that you specify in the FTP server location has read and write priviledges.

To backup to an FTP server, enter the FTP server location in the format:

```src
ftp://user:password@host<:custom_port>/path/
```

For example: `ftp://username:password@10.1.1.1/home/backups/`

### SFTP server

Before you configure backups to an SFTP server, make sure that:

- The RS instance has network connectivity to the SFTP server.
- The user that you specify in the SFTP server location has read and write priviledges.
- The RS server and SFTP server have the correct TLS certificates. You can select either:
    - **Use the cluster auto generated key** - Go to settings and copy the **Cluster SSH Public Key**
        to the SFTP server.
    - **Use a custom key** - Generate a TLS key pair for the SFTP server, copy the private key to
        the **SSH Private Key** box, and copy the public key to the SFTP server.

To backup to an FTP server, enter the FTP server location in the format:

```src
sftp://user:password@host:<:custom_port>/path/
```

For example: `sftp://username:password@10.1.1.1/home/backups/`

### Amazon S3

Before you configure backups to Amazon S3, make sure that you have:

- Path in the format: `s3://bucketname/path/`
- Access key ID
- Secret access key

### Local mount point

Before you configure backups to a local mount point, make sure that:

- The node has network connectivity to the destination server of the mount point.
- The `redislabs:redislabs` user has read and write priviledges on the local mount point
and on the destination server.

To backup to a local mount point for a node:

{{% note %}}
You must configure the mount point for each node that you want to backup.
{{% /note %}}

1. Connect to the terminal of the RS server that the node is running on.
1. Mount the remote storage to a local mount point.

    For example:

    ```src
    sudo mount -t nfs 192.168.10.204:/DataVolume/Public /mnt/Public
    ```

1. In the path for the backup location, enter the mount point.

    For example:

    ```src
    /mnt/Public
    ```

### OpenStack Swift

Before you configure backups to OpenStack Swift, make sure that you have:

- Storage URL in the format: `https://openstack_url/v1`
- Container
- Prefix (Optional)
- User
- Key

Commit message:

Move note to top and copy content to exporting-data

content/rs/administering/database-operations/database-backup.md, after:

---
Title: Scheduled Backups
description: 
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
---
You can manually [export your data]({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/exporting-data.md" >}})
from a specific database at any time.
You can also schedule backups of your databases to make sure you always have valid backups.
The backup process can be scheduled for every 1, 4, 12 or 24 hours from the time that you save the backup configuration.

You can schedule backups to these locations:

- FTP server
- SFTP server
- Amazon S3
- Local mount point
- OpenStack Swift (Object Storage)

Other cloud storage options, including Azure Geo-Redundant Storage and Google Cloud Storage,
are planned for a future release.

The backup process creates compressed (.gz) RDB files that you can [import into a database]
({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/importing-data.md" >}}).
If you backup a database configured for database clustering,
RS copies a backup file for each shard to the specified backup location.

{{% note %}}
- Make sure that you have enough space available in your storage location.
If there is not enough space in the backup location, the backup fails.
- The backup configuration only applies to the node it is configured on.
{{% /note %}}

## Scheduling Periodic Backups

To schedule periodic backups for a database:

1. In **databases**, click on the database that you want to configure backups for.
1. In **configuration**, select **Periodic backup**.
1. Select an interval for the backups to run either every **1**, **4**, **12** or **24** hours.
1. Select one of the available storage types.
1. Enter the details for the selected storage type.
1. To save the database configuration, click **Update**.

<!-- Also in exporting-data.md -->
### FTP server

Before you configure backups to an FTP server, make sure that:

- The RS instance has network connectivity to the FTP server.
- The user that you specify in the FTP server location has read and write priviledges.

To backup to an FTP server, enter the FTP server location in the format:

```src
ftp://user:password@host<:custom_port>/path/
```

For example: `ftp://username:password@10.1.1.1/home/backups/`

### SFTP server

Before you configure backups to an SFTP server, make sure that:

- The RS instance has network connectivity to the SFTP server.
- The user that you specify in the SFTP server location has read and write priviledges.
- The RS server and SFTP server have the correct TLS certificates. You can select either:
    - **Use the cluster auto generated key** - Go to settings and copy the **Cluster SSH Public Key**
        to the SFTP server.
    - **Use a custom key** - Generate a TLS key pair for the SFTP server, copy the private key to
        the **SSH Private Key** box, and copy the public key to the SFTP server.

To backup to an FTP server, enter the FTP server location in the format:

```src
sftp://user:password@host:<:custom_port>/path/
```

For example: `sftp://username:password@10.1.1.1/home/backups/`

### Amazon S3

Before you configure backups to Amazon S3, make sure that you have:

- Path in the format: `s3://bucketname/path/`
- Access key ID
- Secret access key

### Local mount point

Before you configure backups to a local mount point, make sure that:

- The node has network connectivity to the destination server of the mount point.
- The `redislabs:redislabs` user has read and write priviledges on the local mount point
and on the destination server.

To backup to a local mount point for a node:

1. Connect to the terminal of the RS server that the node is running on.
1. Mount the remote storage to a local mount point.

    For example:

    ```src
    sudo mount -t nfs 192.168.10.204:/DataVolume/Public /mnt/Public
    ```

1. In the path for the backup location, enter the mount point.

    For example:

    ```src
    /mnt/Public
    ```

### OpenStack Swift

Before you configure backups to OpenStack Swift, make sure that you have:

- Storage URL in the format: `https://openstack_url/v1`
- Container
- Prefix (Optional)
- User
- Key
